hey everyone welcome back to another
episode of the China history podcast
lászló Montgomery here bringing you part
1 and what is possibly shaping up to be
one of the longest series ever in the
history of the CHP both long and
complicated I don't know how many times
this subject has been requested going
back to 2010 but the drumbeat has been
louder than usual these past few months
and after loyal listener and patreon
supporter Lee Poon's urging to get it
done I decided to stop procrastinating
and you too you can head over to
patreon.com just like lee poon and look
for me los Lamont comer II in the China
history podcast and offer your support
for less than what it cost you for a
strawberry shake at McDonald's you could
help me keep this long-running podcast
show alive going on 10 years already
thanks in advance I'm not asking for
much and in return for becoming a CHP
patron you'll get access to all the
juicy stories from my past that I'm
already dishing up exclusively to the
current elite group of patreon
subscribers well talk about complicated
the warlord era involved more than a
dozen clicks and a hundred warlords and
their allies who dominated Chinese
history from the year of un sure Kai's
passing in 1916 to the end of the
northern expedition in 1928 and into the
commencement of the Nanjing decade we'll
look at some of the history of the
ill-fated Republic of China on the
Chinese mainland as well as all the
marquee warlords you've heard their
names many times before in the CHP
program and in the course of your own
China history studies Duan cheer a whoop
a fool
Yeshe Shan Jiang toll in Jiang dong
Qiang fungus yang
it's how Koon swin chuan Fung leads on
Ren and so many others in all these
cliques or factions that battled each
other the on way click the the girly
click the funky end click
Shaanxi click the guanxi cleek over the
next several episodes I'll sort
everything out for you there were the
Northern warlords the southern warlords
those in the northwest and the Southwest
they're gonna be a heck of a lot of
names and I'm gonna list the cast of
characters mentioned in each episode in
the show notes at the website for those
of you who are often throwing up your
hands and sighing from getting tripped
up by all the Chinese names I'll try and
sort everything out for you so that you
don't get overwhelmed and swept out to
sea we'll focus on no more than maybe
ten warlords in their respective cliques
but plenty more will be mentioned in the
telling of the story the eastern part of
China will get more attention than in
the western part I'll mention the family
in the northwest some of you remember
the Shi base on ma episode CHP 78 the
warlord mock leak of Northwest China
don't go looking for that my family
representatives threatened me with legal
actions so I took it down but I'll still
mention them in this series though in a
peripheral way you know you can't tell
the story of the warlord era without
also mentioning all the background
events happening concurrently in
Republican era history from 1911 and
1949 but at no additional cost
whatsoever I'll provide you with as much
background as necessary to tell the
story of these warlord figures who
didn't give the new post Qing Dynasty
government to chance and thanks to their
antics China remained a weak and
disorganized pushover for the European
imperialist powers and Japanese
militarists take full advantage of
China's political and military disarray
allowed a lot of countries and companies
to feast on China's self-inflicted
misfortune these warlords were
responsible directly and indirectly for
tens of millions of deaths from all the
grocery list of reasons that result in
famine disease and all manners of
collateral damage to the populace from
all
Wars and battles fought the patriotism
of these warlords was always in question
some were credited with being more
patriotic than others but their true
loyalties which of their own selves
first and foremost money and power
that's what mattered to them building a
new China to stand up to the foreign
powers all scrambling to get a piece of
the beleaguered nation not high on the
list so although there has always been
this great interest in China's warlord
past and a hunger to know about their
stories and escapades the truth is they
were the cause of much of the worst
suffering the Chinese nation would see
in modern times they made it easy for
Japan to come in and do all the terrible
things they did to China and the Chinese
people the Warlord's made it near
impossible for any semblance of a
central government to emerge that could
you know as we say in the beautiful
country establish justice insure
domestic tranquility provide for the
common defense and to promote the
general welfare in taking stock of every
episode of the China history podcast
going back to 2010 I have to admit it's
rather lopsided in terms of topics
concerning PRC history versus roc
history for all of you patiently waiting
for some Republican era Chinese history
you did not wait in vain I'm gonna try
and make up for that in this series the
thing is in China during this warlord
era of 1916 to 1928 when China was not
unified this wasn't anything new
throughout the period of all the
imperial dynasties there were these
times when China just fell apart when
the ancient Zhuo Dynasty Kings lost
control the feudal lords and their
various fiefdom 'z it ushered in a long
period known as the spring and autumn
and warring States eras it was a bloody
and violent time but paradoxically one
of the most fruitful as far as the
emergence of traditional Chinese culture
was concerned when the eastern Han
started crumbling and fell apart
in 180 it assured in the fabled three
kingdoms period 180 to 260 and pretty
much from the three kingdoms to the sway
and 589 there was no single unified
China well 280 the Western Jian held it
together for a few decades
not even that and in between the fall of
the tongue and founding of the song was
five dynasties ten kingdoms period and
besides these there were a few other
times as well in Chinese history when
the country was divided up into
contending states but we remember the
warlord era most of all perhaps because
it was so relatively recent and much
fresher in our consciousness this all
went down in China nearly a century ago
and we've been living with the
consequences ever since in any country's
history
everyone for better or for worse
citizens of each nation have been the
beneficiaries or victims of their
nations history you really have to think
hard to find some benefit to the Chinese
masses that came out of this warlord era
after all the research I've done the
past weeks and months honestly I
couldn't find any one irrefutable
historical truth of China's warlord era
was that it was a time of political
military economic and social chaos
there's no but such-and-such was a
positive result of all the national
suffering I mean no good came of their
antics
there was no unexpected or unintended
positive result that inadvertently
happened that brought peace happiness or
prosperity to the masses it was just one
long agonizing period of suffering and
lost opportunities for China so let's go
back in time to see how the stage was
set for this disastrous decade in
Chinese history these warlords just
didn't appear out of nowhere there was
some historical background to their rise
to power China's so-called century of
humiliation the by nian culture began
with the opium war I've meant
in past decades how the Manchu Qing
Dynasty sort of began to sputter
sometime during the second half of the
reign of that Shenlong Emperor the
longest reigning emperor in Chinese
imperial history like a lot of leaders
in world history he lived too long many
of his early achievements were sorta
negated by the decisions made or not
made when he kept on ruling after he was
no longer at the top of his game where's
a good place to start
the Taiping rebellion is as good a place
as any aside from everything else there
is to say about this upheaval from 1850
to 1864 that led to something like 20
million deaths it highlighted the
abysmal state of affairs that existed in
the ching military
besides this national Cataclysm brought
on by the Taiping rebels the poor old
Chien Fong Emperor during the early
years of his depressing reign had to
deal with in yen and Miao rebellions and
Second Opium War as well when it was
clear that Shing Army wasn't gonna be
able to quash the Taiping rebels they
had to turn to what was for all intents
and purposes a mercenary army to save
China some were led by foreigners but as
far as the warlord era all of the 20th
century militarists who played any
significant role in the warlord era owed
their positions to the outcome of the
Taiping rebellion the Chien Fong Emperor
needed help and he was left with no
choice but to reach out to these
provincial governors and have them act
as his proxy to put an end to this
national unrest two of the biggest names
that rose to the fore word son Guan and
Li Hongzhang those two men had their own
armies son Guan commanded these young
army Chung is just an abbreviation for
hold on and Li Hongzhang controlled the
hawai army of anway these regional
armies like the whole nine and hawai
armies evolved from a kind of local
militia called young yang armies and
these local militias were filled with
peasant soldiers gathered from the
province besides these two more
well-known armies the whole not in hawai
armies there were also others this was
the trend by this time in Chinese
history 1850s 1860s the country had
already fallen into the imperialist trap
and a Ching Court was fated never to
break free from that and as a result of
this law and order broke down and true
power gravitated to the regional
governments building an army from the
ground up is one of those more
complicated than it looks kind of things
so in the case of building an army as
with building an addition onto your home
it's easier to call in a subcontractor
to manage the job for you but unlike
with building a new addition onto your
home were you paying the contractor to
do the work and he walks away well with
these provincial armies they stuck
around pretty much from the Year 1644
when they founded the Ching dynasty the
Manchu rulers were fighting a losing
battle they were man shoes which today
is no big deal but back then the
majority Han Chinese population from the
get-go
bristled at having to be subservient to
them after 200 years mid 19th century
nothing had changed when times were good
during the first century of the Ching
everyone kept their mouth shut but less
than 20 years into the century of
humiliation the overwhelmingly non
manchu portion of the population mostly
concluded these guys did not have the
Mandate of Heaven anymore and had to go
and so the Taiping rebels went down in
defeat 1864 and the armies hired to put
an end to them stayed when son Guan died
in 1872 his protege li hung-chang 49 at
the time took over is the most powerful
military strongman in China as well as
the dynasty's go-to guy for any matters
relating to foreigners and the more Li
Hongzhang got to know these foreigners
the greater he became convinced the
foreigners and their weapons and
jeez would be the key to China's defense
and future survival the Hong Kong wasn't
the only game in town
there were others as well who filled the
vacuum left behind by the ching ruler
whose powers were greatly diminished the
farther you got from Beijing in 1871 the
Bey young army had been established as
one of the four modernized regional
armies
this was the Qing dynasty's great post
Taiping rebellion hope for the future of
their military the Bey young army grew
to become the biggest and most powerful
of them all they were funded by Li
Hongzhang who was able to use his
position of authority to funnel as much
money as needed to buy ships and
armaments from the Europeans steam ships
railroads and telegraph service had
arrived treaty ports weren't shantytowns
anymore the old days that move no faster
than the speed of a horse were gone
forever China's leaders were a deer in
the headlights as soon as the 20th
century approached they had a lot of
catching up to do but in the meantime
such a rich and economically vibrant
country as China with that one-of-a-kind
population and market was just sitting
there waiting to be plundered the
primary reason for China's urgency to
shape up or ship out with their military
was the outcome of the 1894 1895 first
sino-japanese war I want to mention the
Bey young fleet and their role in this
debacle for China under Lee Hong Kong's
leadership the Bey young fleet had grown
on paper anyway to become one of the
largest most powerful navies in the
world but for a lot of reasons poor
training corruption it looked a lot
better than it actually was by the time
of the sino-japanese war this was
practically the only significant
fighting force that was equipped to take
on the much better armed trained
Japanese Navy
despite the investment and all the
training from foreign officers the Bey
young
got their asses kicked in this war and
from 1895 on the bay a young fleet was
never able to make a comeback and was
ultimately merged with China's other
Navy to the south some of you might
recall the story about how money's
earmarked for the bay young fleet went
instead to the building of the Empress
dowager's marble pleasure boat so 1895
the Japanese military Kremes China and
humiliates them internationally and this
was followed by the disastrous Treaty of
Shimonoseki thanks to this wake-up call
China was forced to go into hock to all
these European banks who couldn't issue
bonds and other types of debt fast
enough that war indemnity China had to
pay Japan was oppressive yes indemnities
forced under duress our want to be with
Japan on a roll and eyeing China's
northeast the dynasty was forced to keep
them in check by letting the Russians
into Manchuria and greater numbers that
great territorial cost after the Treaty
of Shimonoseki at the highest levels of
power the rulers political figures and
military men all said okay now we're
serious let's finally stop talking about
modernizing the military and really do
it this time this is where the rise of
the bay young army comes in the whole
warlord era owes its existence to this
former high army that had been created
and built up by Lee Hong Jung I just
mentioned with money he was able to
raise and the provinces he controlled
the Hong Jang built up the bay young
army to become the most powerful and
mighty of China's armies like the bay
young fleet the bay young army didn't
perform all that well on the
sino-japanese war in fact so poor was
their joint performance that pretty much
spelled the end to Lee Hom Jang's career
now before Lee Hong Jang breathed his
last in 1901 he got to be part of one
more milestone in Chinese history and
this was the handling of the boxer
protocol that ended the Boxer Rebellion
he unwisely
the site of the Empress Dowager in this
uprising against all foreigners in China
that didn't end well for the Middle
Kingdom with Lee's passing shortly
thereafter it was going to be left up to
his protege and successor your insurer
Kai to be the next strong man in China
your insurer kai he sometimes called the
first of the 20th century warlords after
the Boxer Rebellion ended on September 7
1901 it began a new era of China
embracing all the west could offer I
mean that was useful to the country that
is this was the period of self
strengthening with the dynasty now on
its last legs it also represented one
final opportunity for the foreign powers
to take one last bite out of that rotten
apple of a dynasty un sherk I had gotten
his start working for Lee Hom jong-un
was a was an extremely energetic sort
very dependable and always got the job
done he was a man who though shortened
stature was long on real talent his big
start came back in 1885 when he was sent
by Lee Hong Jong to Korea to represent
China's interests there the Japanese
were just starting to ramp up in Asia
and they were competing with China for
influence their UN had been recalled
back to China in 1894 right on the eve
of the first sino-japanese war one of
the upshots of China's humiliating
defeat was the formation of the new army
the Xin Jun UN had been put in charge of
this project and the new army played a
starring role in suppressing the boxers
and protecting the besieged foreign
powers in Beijing what's important to
know is that UN through his control of
this new army allied himself with the
Qin court before the Boxer Rebellion UN
Sherk I had cozied up to the Empress
Dowager and he provided all the muscle
needed to assist in putting an end to
the hundred days reform that was in 1898
the Guangxu amp
and his 40 decrees that sought to
modernize the country written by kang
youwei lian-chu chao and others were 40
decrees too many as far as the empress
dowager was concerned so you ensure Kai
and his new army played a role in making
sure that never happened and thanks to
this act you're an endeared himself to
the Ching Court you ensure Kai kept
using his energies and political skills
to continue growing this army and on
June 25th 1902 it was renamed the Bey
young army now this wasn't the only army
in China not by a long shot
every province had one but your ends the
young army was the most powerful and
since they were up in Beijing and were
primarily responsible for keeping the
Ching dynasty on life support they had a
rather unique role to play back then and
all the way through the warlord era
whoever controlled Beijing controlled
the government and whoever controlled
the government was first in line to deal
with the foreign powers and get access
to their foreign capital after li
hung-chang passed in 1901 he ensure Kai
in June 1902 replaced him as Viceroy of
Jerle a post held previously by sanguine
and then by li hung-chang
surely you'll hear that word a lot in
this series it's a name for a province
set up in the Ming and Qing dynasties
surely translated means directly
subservient to in today's China I guess
you could sort of compare surely to the
municipalities who are physically
located inside a province but report
directly to the central authorities
rather than to the governor in our time
Beijing Tianjin Shanghai and Chongqing
are four cities that don't have to
answer to any provincial authority well
the same went with derly province they
reported directly to the imperial
government
Cheerilee today comprises most of Hebei
province some of her nan
piece of Shandong Beijing was physically
located inside the jelly region that's
why being the Viceroy or
governor-general of Cheerilee was a very
key post the fate of the dynasty rested
in the viceroys hands in Chinese the
position was called its own do they were
eight viceroys in China the term Bayon
was used to name the areas along china's
coast that was comprised of portions of
Journey Shandong and the North East
Beijing where the Qing government was
located was the center of it all and
whoever held the position of Viceroy of
Cheerilee they were in charge of
everything the position of bae yong chun
qiang bachchan was held by the viceroy
of Julie and this post known as the
minister of bae yong was also in charge
of trade relations and matters
concerning foreign affairs your insurer
kai after the hong kong's passing war
all of these hats he had already started
to make a name for himself in Korea and
had slowly built up his power working in
Li Hongzhang shadow UN had managed not
to get too dirty to the sino-japanese
war and had made himself useful to the
dynasty and a hundred days reform and
now his biggest moment had arrived in
1903 again shark I was in full military
modernization mode he built up six
divisions of this new and improved bae
yong army he employed japanese and
german military instructors and advisors
to train officers and later on five of
these officers being groomed would in
time service either the President or
premier of China and a lot of the men
who would place starring roles in the
warlord era were just now being placed
in various positions of power by you and
sure Kai and he acted as a sort of
godfather to the whole bay young
organization believe it or not there was
a lot more going on in China than just
the demise of Lee Hong Kong and the rise
of you and shirk I I'm doing all I can
to try not to
wander too far from our central story at
the dawn of the 20th century there's a
whole slew of political figures all over
China plotting for the downfall of the
Manchu Ching dynasty Sun yat-sen
included he had formed his Tong bong way
or United League in 1905 this party was
the forerunner to the Guam in dong or
KMT in November of 1908 the Empress
dowager's she finally died John King
Fairbank wrote quote the Manchu
leadership left behind by the Empress
Dowager was thoroughly unmemorable a
child Emperor a venal Regent
vainglorious young prince's a FETs
courtiers all of them together just
smart enough to inhibit change but quite
incapable of leading it end quote
1909 this Qing Court wary of his growing
power dismissed reinsure Chi as a threat
to their existence as a ruling dynasty
they were right about that on double
10-day 1911 another major milestone in
Chinese history the Wu Chun uprising
down in hebei province elements of the
new army rebelled against the Ching and
once that happened within one and a half
months 15 provinces in China declared
independence from the Ching the Ching
courts look to your insurer Kai to get
them out of this jam but he knew the
dynasty was decades past its sell-by
date and rather than keep them going
he cut a better deal with the
revolutionaries trying to push China
into the direction of a republic and the
rest is history
a history we will look at in the next
installment of the CHP I wanted to
provide you with a short to the point
overview of the events that led up to
this moment this sad and frustrating
period in Chinese history has been
discussed more than a few times and past
episodes skipped over quite a bit but
we'll come back again one day to zoom in
and all the antics that went down all
over China from the conclusion of the
Taiping rebellion to the end of the
dynasty next episode we'll pick up with
the actual beginnings of the warlord era
in the beginning as we saw there was a
sanguine and from San Juan came li
hung-chang
and Li Hongzhang beget un sure Kai and
as we'll see next time the first
generation of warlords all got their
start as part of you ensure Kai's team
and this team was the entire Bay young
organization that in northern China at
least controlled the military went to a
lesser extent relations with the foreign
imperialist powers all for next episode
once again I humbly beg you to go over
to patreon calm down three bucks a month
and you'll get the golden key that
unlocks a safe full of stories from my
checkered past shilling for a few china
manufacturers and getting their products
placed in all the great retail emporiums
of the USA plus a whole lot more
patreon.com i'll have a link to my
patreon page and the show notes hey go
check out jordan Schneider's China econ
talk great podcast very interesting
guests and a lot of insights into all
kinds of business and tech news in China
they're part of the sub China media
empire the jewel in the crown of course
being the Seneca podcast
Jeremy gold corn and Keiser Wars
long-running program ok my little
beauties that's all I got for y'all's
this time I don't know how many more
episodes it's gonna take to tell this
story but I do welcome you to come back
next time and see how far we can go
before the buzzer rings this is Lazlo
Montgomery signing off from Los Angeles
Cali down here in the Southland what a
nice summer I had sorry to see it go do
come back again next time and join me
and millions of others all over the
planet for another exciting episode of
the China history podcast